README.md, before:

# Caffe
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BVLC/caffe.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BVLC/caffe)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind.
It is developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center ([BVLC](http://bvlc.eecs.berkeley.edu)) and community contributors.

Check out the [project site](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org) for all the details like
- [DIY Deep Learning for Vision with Caffe](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UeKXVgRvvxg9OUdh_UiC5G71UMscNPlvArsWER41PsU/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Tutorial Documentation](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/tutorial/)
- [BVLC reference models](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/model_zoo.html) and the [community model zoo](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/wiki/Model-Zoo)
- [Installation instructions](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Installation)

and step-by-step examples.

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Please join the [caffe-users group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/caffe-users) or [gitter chat](https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe) to ask questions and talk about methods and models.
Framework development discussions and thorough bug reports are collected on [Issues](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/issues).

Happy brewing!


# SSD: Single Shot MultiBox Detector
This repository contains merged code issued as pull request to BVLC caffe written by:
[Wei Liu](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~wliu/), [Dragomir Anguelov](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dragomiranguelov), [Dumitru Erhan](http://research.google.com/pubs/DumitruErhan.html), [Christian Szegedy](http://research.google.com/pubs/ChristianSzegedy.html), [Scott Reed](http://www-personal.umich.edu/~reedscot/), [Cheng-Yang Fu](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~cyfu/), [Alexander C. Berg](http://acberg.com).  Original branch can be found at https://github.com/weiliu89/caffe/tree/ssd.  Read our [wiki page](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/SSD:-Single-Shot-MultiBox-Detector) for more details.  # Intel® Distribution of Caffe* This fork is dedicated to improving Caffe performance when running on CPU, in particular Intel® Xeon processors (HSW, BDW, Xeon Phi) ## Building Build procedure is the same as on bvlc-caffe-master branch. Both Make and CMake can be used.
When OpenMP is available will be used automatically.

## Running
Run procedure is the same as on bvlc-caffe-master branch.

Current implementation uses OpenMP threads. By default the number of OpenMP threads is set
to the number of CPU cores. Each one thread is bound to a single core to achieve best
performance results. It is however possible to use own configuration by providing right
one through OpenMP environmental variables like OMP_NUM_THREADS or GOMP_CPU_AFFINITY.

If some system tool like numactl is used to control CPU affinity, by default caffe will prevent
to use more than one thread per core. When less than required cores are specified, caffe will
limit execution of OpenMP threads to specified cores only.

## Best performance solution
Please read [our Wiki](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Recommendations-to-achieve-best-performance) for our recommendations and configuration to achieve best performance on Intel CPUs. 

## Multinode Training
Intel® Distribution of Caffe* multi-node allows you to execute deep neural network training on multiple machines.

To understand how it works and read some tutorials, go to our Wiki. Start from [Multinode guide](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Multinode-guide).

## Resnet50 for ImageNet to achieve >93% Top-5 accuracy 
### Inference
We run Resnet50 inference on AWS cx.4xlarge, which is "Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8124M CPU @ 3.00GHz" with 1 socket and 8 physical cores.See https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/on-demand/. Command:

   numactl -l ./build/tools/caffe test -model models/intel_optimized_models/multinode/resnet_50_16_nodes_2k_batch_int8_prune/deploy.prototxt -iterations 50000 -weights models/intel_optimized_models/multinode/resnet_50_16_nodes_2k_batch_int8_prune/Facebook_resnet_50_2_nodes_256_batch_100_warmup3_15p_finest_tune_iter_439600.caffemodel

The latency to inference 1 image is 12.4ms and cost for inference 10000 ImageNet valdiation images are $0.023 in average. The top-5 accuracy is 0.9307. 

#### To creates lmdb without resize for the inference
   prepare imagenet dataset and run this command under caffe working folder:
 
   sh examples/imagenet/create_imagenet_raw.sh


## License and Citation
Caffe is released under the [BSD 2-Clause license](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/blob/master/LICENSE).
The BVLC reference models are released for unrestricted use.

Please cite Caffe in your publications if it helps your research:

    @article{jia2014caffe,
      Author = {Jia, Yangqing and Shelhamer, Evan and Donahue, Jeff and Karayev, Sergey and Long, Jonathan and Girshick, Ross and Guadarrama, Sergio and Darrell, Trevor},
      Journal = {arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.5093},
      Title = {Caffe: Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding},
      Year = {2014}
    }

***
 *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others

Commit message:

Add training model, results and guide to achieve >93% top-5 accuracy

README.md, after:

# Caffe
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BVLC/caffe.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BVLC/caffe)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind.
It is developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center ([BVLC](http://bvlc.eecs.berkeley.edu)) and community contributors.

Check out the [project site](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org) for all the details like
- [DIY Deep Learning for Vision with Caffe](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UeKXVgRvvxg9OUdh_UiC5G71UMscNPlvArsWER41PsU/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Tutorial Documentation](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/tutorial/)
- [BVLC reference models](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/model_zoo.html) and the [community model zoo](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/wiki/Model-Zoo)
- [Installation instructions](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Installation)

and step-by-step examples.

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Please join the [caffe-users group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/caffe-users) or [gitter chat](https://gitter.im/BVLC/caffe) to ask questions and talk about methods and models.
Framework development discussions and thorough bug reports are collected on [Issues](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/issues).

Happy brewing!


# SSD: Single Shot MultiBox Detector
This repository contains merged code issued as pull request to BVLC caffe written by:
[Wei Liu](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~wliu/), [Dragomir Anguelov](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dragomiranguelov), [Dumitru Erhan](http://research.google.com/pubs/DumitruErhan.html), [Christian Szegedy](http://research.google.com/pubs/ChristianSzegedy.html), [Scott Reed](http://www-personal.umich.edu/~reedscot/), [Cheng-Yang Fu](http://www.cs.unc.edu/~cyfu/), [Alexander C. Berg](http://acberg.com).  Original branch can be found at https://github.com/weiliu89/caffe/tree/ssd.  Read our [wiki page](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/SSD:-Single-Shot-MultiBox-Detector) for more details.  # Intel® Distribution of Caffe* This fork is dedicated to improving Caffe performance when running on CPU, in particular Intel® Xeon processors (HSW, BDW, Xeon Phi) ## Building Build procedure is the same as on bvlc-caffe-master branch. Both Make and CMake can be used.
When OpenMP is available will be used automatically.

## Running
Run procedure is the same as on bvlc-caffe-master branch.

Current implementation uses OpenMP threads. By default the number of OpenMP threads is set
to the number of CPU cores. Each one thread is bound to a single core to achieve best
performance results. It is however possible to use own configuration by providing right
one through OpenMP environmental variables like OMP_NUM_THREADS or GOMP_CPU_AFFINITY.

If some system tool like numactl is used to control CPU affinity, by default caffe will prevent
to use more than one thread per core. When less than required cores are specified, caffe will
limit execution of OpenMP threads to specified cores only.

## Best performance solution
Please read [our Wiki](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Recommendations-to-achieve-best-performance) for our recommendations and configuration to achieve best performance on Intel CPUs. 

## Multinode Training
Intel® Distribution of Caffe* multi-node allows you to execute deep neural network training on multiple machines.

To understand how it works and read some tutorials, go to our Wiki. Start from [Multinode guide](https://github.com/intel/caffe/wiki/Multinode-guide).

## Resnet50 for ImageNet to achieve >93% Top-5 accuracy 
### Inference
We run Resnet50 inference on AWS cx.4xlarge, which is "Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8124M CPU @ 3.00GHz" with 1 socket and 8 physical cores.See https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/on-demand/. Command:

   numactl -l ./build/tools/caffe test -model models/intel_optimized_models/multinode/resnet_50_16_nodes_2k_batch_int8_prune/deploy.prototxt -iterations 50000 -weights models/intel_optimized_models/multinode/resnet_50_16_nodes_2k_batch_int8_prune/Facebook_resnet_50_2_nodes_256_batch_100_warmup3_15p_finest_tune_iter_439600.caffemodel

The latency to inference 1 image is 12.4ms and cost for inference 10000 ImageNet valdiation images are $0.023 in average. The top-5 accuracy is 0.9307. 

#### To creates lmdb without resize for the inference
   prepare imagenet dataset and run this command under caffe working folder:
 
   sh examples/imagenet/create_imagenet_raw.sh

### Training
Please refer to "Guide to Launch Intel Caffe Multi Nodes Training on AWS.docx" to setup Intel Caffe multinode training on AWS. We achieved Top-1 76.052 and Top-5 93.0482 within 6.17 hours on 64 Amazon EC2 [c5.18xlarge] nodes (Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8124M CPU @ 3.00GHz, 2 sockets, each 18 cores) .

## License and Citation
Caffe is released under the [BSD 2-Clause license](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/blob/master/LICENSE).
The BVLC reference models are released for unrestricted use.

Please cite Caffe in your publications if it helps your research:

    @article{jia2014caffe,
      Author = {Jia, Yangqing and Shelhamer, Evan and Donahue, Jeff and Karayev, Sergey and Long, Jonathan and Girshick, Ross and Guadarrama, Sergio and Darrell, Trevor},
      Journal = {arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.5093},
      Title = {Caffe: Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding},
      Year = {2014}
    }

***
 *Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others
